Welcome back in this lecture we're going to talk about image thresholding in some computer vision applications.
It is often necessary to convert color images to grayscale since only edges and shapes end up being
important for certain applications.
You don't actually need to know the color of someone's shirt for instance to get the outline of a shirt.
Similarly some applications really only require a binary image showing general shapes.
Not even just greyscale just black or white thresholding is fundamentally a very simple method of segmenting
an image into different parts.
Thresholding will convert image to consist of only two values white or black.
Later on we'll see some other examples of thresholding that actually convert to some sort of grayscale
and do have values in between black and white.
But typically it's going to be going with a straight binary threshold that turns values into black or
white.
So what is the sexy look like.
Basically here on the left we have a color image.
So here we have some snow a bridge a tree and then a building in the background.
We take that color image convert it to grayscale and then we apply an image threshold which converts
that greyscale image into a binary image where values are either black or white.
And we obtain still a lot of information.
So now we can see that we saw the gene or shapes.
I can tell there's a building some trees and then I can tell maybe there's a bridge there and some sort
of foreground.
But I get all that information with very little data compared to the actual first image because now
instead of three color channels I only need one channel and all my values are actually just binary they're
either 0 or 255.
So let's explore the syntax and options for thresholding of open C-v Let's open up a notebook and get
started.
OK we're going to begin by doing an import of CB2 and we're going to display some images.
So we will say import that plot pipe plot as PLDT and then say map plot lib in the line as well.
The image we're going to use is an image of a rainbow that is located in the data folder.
So we will say image read and where we are data folders located.
Go ahead and read in the rainbow jpg file from there.
Let's go out and see the image.
So we'll say peel t him show.
And then we'll say image.
So there it is there's the rainbow image and all we're going to be doing is experimenting with a couple
of different thresholding options.
The first one I want to show is actually read in an image that is in color and read it in in grayscale
and then we can do that is just as a second parameter just pasand 0 when you read it.
So say CB2 read your image.
And the second parameter 0 and when you run it that way you'll read it in as a greyscale image.
Notice that the colors change.
That's because as we've discussed before very this is the original color scale for this.
So it will clarify the map equal to gray.
And there we actually see a greyscale version of that rainbow.
Now let's check out the different threshold types.
The thresholding works as you say CB2 dot threshold.
And then you get a pass in your image and there's going to be two main parameters.
One is the actual threshold and the other one is the max value expected.
So what this does is this function basically is going to apply thresholding and it's going to say any
values below a specific threshold get turned to zero any values above that get turned to the max.
Now typically what you do for a thresholding in situations is you just choose the halfway point to be
your threshold.
So in that case or halfway point should be 255 divided by two.
So if we do that we'll say 255 divided by two that's equal to 120 7.5.
So you can choose either side of that.
So choose 127 because we want it to be an integer.
And then the max value here is 255.
In case you ever have any doubts for your particular image only to do is say image max and then report
back.
So in our case the actual MXL used to 14 but we know the actual max possible value is 255.
The reason you may want to actually check the max is in case your image goes from 0 to 1.
But if you're reading it with CB2 then it should read it to all go from zero to 25.
Excuse me from 0 to 255 as the Max.
OK.
So we have an image we have a threshold and we have our max value possible.
And then we'll go ahead and passen the type a threshold.
In this case we're going to say A to thrash and you could tap here you'll see the various thresholds
available.
We're going to start off with the simplest one which is binary.
Again any value inside this image which is below 1 to 7.
It's going to be shifted down to zero and any value above 1 to 7 is going to be shifted up the max of
255.
So then we're going to say is our easy come to thresh one is equal to CV to that threshold.
So we do a little bit tuple and packing here in the wake it's return and if you check up this object
it basically just informs you what the actual cutoff value was in case you ever want to revisit that
and the thresh one is actually an image.
So I will say PTM show thresh one and then say See map is great.
And you'll notice that we have a binary image so all the values are either 0 or 255.
Now you can actually do an inverse of this by saying binary underscore.
I envy as a threshold binary inverse.
So this does the exact same thing except it inverts all the results.
So if you run this again you'll get back the actual inverse of binary.
Those are the two most common are going to be using is threshold vinery and threshold by unary inverse
depending on the actual situation.
OK let's explore a couple of more threshold options.
Another threshold option besides thresh binary and thrist binary inverse is thresh hold and then T R
U N C and this is essentially a threshold truncation.
So the way this works is if you actually look up in the documentation the various thresholds can open
up documentation link and you can see the actual way the formulas work.
So we already are familiar thresh binary where you're going to have some sort of source and it's going
to go either to zero or the max value provided which is 255 usually.
And then three binary inverse is the opposite.
It's going to go to zero if the source of that value is greater than the threshold and then the max
value.
Otherwise for thresh with truncation what it's going to do is if it's actually over the threshold then
it's going to go to whatever you set it as so.
So if you set the threshold to one to seven if the source happens to be greater than that threshold
it's going to bring back that value down to the threshold.
Otherwise it's going to keep the original value.
So we'll see what that looks like here.
So when I say threats truncated run that again and now we get to see the results here.
So notice that some of them got to keep their original value and then other ones got put down back to
the threshold here.
So again that's threshold truncation where all it does is if the source material is above the threshold
it gets pulled back down to the threshold.
If the source material is otherwise less than the threshold we keep that source.
And as you may imagine there's essentially an inverse of this which is threshed to zero where you're
going to keep the source material if it's greater than the threshold.
And then if you're not growing on a threshold you're going to pull it back down to zero.
So there's also an inverse of that as well.
So we say threshold and we can say lips make sure that's 2 0 and if you run those you basically get
the normalized values here and then anything that Ameet that gets put back down to zero.
So the formula again for thrush to zero if we were above the threshold we're going to keep our value
otherwise for below that threshold we go down to zero.
So you can see these right here went back down to zero.
And as you may have imagined there's an inverse to that one so we can call that as well.
And you basically get the opposite.
These guys then go back down to zero.
And these guys get to keep their original source values.
OK.
So that's a very simple image.
Let's actually see a bit of a real world application.
We're going to go ahead and do a couple of things here.
I'm going to read in a new image file I will say C-v to read.
And then inside of my data folder I'm going to say crossword that Jay Pead and then I'll say comma 0
in order to read it in as a greyscale.
And if you just say peel t him show on this image actually appears very small.
And we also want to clarify the c map here should be gray.
So this is a crossword image.
It's actually pretty blurry because it's a large image but it's showing pretty small on the screen.
What I'm going to do is set up a function in order to display this image will say show pick.
It's going to take in the image and we'll say figure is equal to peel t figure thinks size.
In this case I'm going to make it quite larger let's say 15 by 15 and then we'll say x is equal to Fig.
Add subplot and hopefully you remember that we actually coded this out ourselves manually in the very
first section of the course and they'll say X in Show image.
See map great.
So we've actually seen these three lines of code before and we're talking about showing images inside
of a notebook.
We're now we're just functional izing it into a convenient show pick function and we're actually going
to be using this function quite a bit throughout the course.
But if we define this function we can then show that image and WIPs let's make sure we imported everything.
Size is not defined so that should be fixed size equals 15 by 15.
Now it's from those again.
And there we go.
Now we have this image here so you can see here we have a crossword puzzle.
And right now it's in black and white but also we can notice here that there is a lot of information
in gray that we don't really care about or need.
For example if we wanted to scan this and maybe do some sort of analysis on it you'll notice here that
over in the white space the newspaper is appearing kind of gray.
It will make a lot more sense if we would just say anywhere there's ink.
It should be black and anywhere there's not ink.
It should be white so we can just use a simple binary threshold and play around with this.
So let's see what happens when we use a simple binary threshold.
All realize that it's actually not super great at doing it's job.
And then we learn about an adaptive threshold which is a little better.
So say RTT and threshold one or if you want to call those two variables will say threshold in the image
and then Passons them value for the threshold and pass and the max possible value which is 255.
And then let's go ahead and say thrash.
In this case let's use thresh binary and then we will show the pick of the new threshold image.
So if you run that you can see that we've attempted to threshold the image.
However we're losing a little bit of quality here because some of the gray spaces they got threshold
to white when we actually wanted to keep them as black.
There's a couple different ways to deal this problem.
One is to try experimenting with the other thresholding types and the other is to try experimenting
with a different level a threshold so maybe the size to go for a higher threshold and run this and actually
grab more of the ink.
So you can see here as I go with a higher higher threshold I get to grab more of those kind of darker
grays and treat those as ink.
But again that comes at the cost of some of the near spaces that are pretty dark gray.
So maybe you want to lower this to some sort of in-between one to seven and 200.
So you can start experimenting with this and see more and more what's an appropriate threshold.
In other method to do is the adaptive threshold and the threshold what it does is it tries to automatically
adapt its threshold based off the pixel and where the Great is around the pixel.
So you can check out the notebook that we provide for a full explanation as far as the threshold parameters
because it is at best a bit confusing as far as what the parameters are.
So we're going to go ahead and do adaptive thresholding on this image and then we'll explain a little
bit about what all the parameters mean.
I would say threshold to notice I'm not doing tuple and packing for this one and I will say CB2 and
then we're actually in call it different function called adaptive threshold.
And this is going to take in a couple of parameters.
We first take in the image and then we're going to say the max value.
So the max possible value is 255 and then we're going to choose an adaptive method.
So there's various adaptive methods available for us and open C.v.
So if you begin typing adaptive you'll notice that there's Gaussian and mean so these are just essentially
averaging the methods that we can use for the at that threshold and then we're going to also say the
threshold type so we can say CB2 and then say thresh binary essentially after you do the actual adaptive
threshold then what kind of threshold results do you actually want.
So you want everything to be black and white or do you still want Grae's available after it's done.
It's a data thresholding.
And then you have two more parameters at the end which is the block size and the c constant the block
size is the size of a pixel neighborhood that is used to calculate a threshold for a particular pixel
at that the thresholding does is it such a going to look at a little neighborhood around a pixel to
see whether or not the pixels next to it should be included and it's up to you what kind of sizes you
want.
Usually people like to play with things like 3 5 and 7.
Keep in mind it does need to be an odd number just the way the math works.
So we can choose something like 11 a little bit of experimentation is usually necessary here.
And then you have a constant value at the end.
And this constant is subtracted from the mean or weighted mean.
And normally it is positive but it could be zero or negative as well.
And again check out the link in our notebook that gives a little further explanation as far as good
guessing values to start off with.
Usually the first one you'll start with like 3 5 and 7 and 11 just odd numbers and keep going up.
This one you're going to kind of play around with.
But again it's all kind of guessing and checking here it's a little bit hard to have a good intuition
for these sort of values but let's see the result of this and see how it performs.
So this is now adaptive.
Thresholding So it's looking at neighborhoods around these darker values of pixels and you can see here
it's kind of interesting because it recognize the dark spaces filled in in the crossword.
However because it's due to the adaptive thresholding sense looking at neighborhoods eventually decided
not to fill them in.
So it still recognizes them but it doesn't fill them in like it did previously.
We went straight up with a binary threshold and we can be in again experimenting of values more and
more here that the thresholding.
And what we can even do is start mixing in ideas of things we already learn and actually blending images.
So we could do is blend this threshold.
One result that actually fills in these values with this threshold to which didn't fill in the values
but maybe has clear text.
So the way we do that is just as we described in the previous lecture we can say blended is equal to
CB2 add waited and then we can just define what we want so we can say source one is equal to that first
thresholding maybe give that one 60 percent and then source to make that one the 40 percent of the image.
So we'll see.
Th to where beta is an equal to 0.4.
Now we can set in gamma 0.
So that's our blended image and we can end up showing a picture of that one.
And if you run that you're getting kind of a little bit of a nicer result here and you can experiment
and match with kind of what the best results are.
But this is also a common approach trying to use something that is a blend of different thresholds often
in kind of more serious applications.
People will just use an adaptive threshold and keep updating these parameters until they get something
that they're satisfied with.
So I encourage you to really play around with these parameters.
You can also play around with the Gaussian and see how that performs.
So you can run that one and see how that performs compared to the median.
And then also play around with these threshold binary.
You can even do an inverse if you really wanted to and get the opposite and then play around these sizes
as well.
OK.
So the main ideas here is that we can always threshold images to basically go from something that's
in grayscale to only two binary colors either white or black.
And there's lots of different methods to do that.
And we can even keep original values depending on the different types of thresholds we use.
I encourage you to check the documentation again and make sure you understand how to read this.
So for example threshold binary over here on the left it's going to tell you what the final result is.
Over here on the right it's going to tell you the condition that decides its final result.
So if the source of x and y is greater in a threshold then that value becomes the max value possible
that you provided.
Otherwise it becomes a zero.
So that's how you read this sort of mathematical notation.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
We'll be using thresholding throughout the course.
We'll see it there.